---
layout: post
title: Cartoportation
date: 2015-07-08T03:50:18+02:00
summary:    Going for a paper map.
categories: random thoughts
thumbnail: map
tags:
 - ideas
 - thoughts

---
### Map-Teleportation

In a matter of minutes I was
[‘cartoported’](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teleportation) from 2015
to circa 1980. It all started when I turned the *Google* **Maps
Navigator** on. In a matter of 10 minutes I was totally disoriented as
to where I was going. This was exacerbated by the season of the year.
Sunset quickly turned to night. I only wished it was summer time where
sunset can be experienced at 20:15 and not 17:58. The sacrifice I had
made for some [costly mobile data](the%20thin%20data%20pipe) was about
to count for nothing.

![Location Settings](/images/location_settings.PNG) The first mistake
was over-reliance on the battery life of a Samsung Galaxy S4 Mini. At
35% you’d think you still have some hours of ‘play-time’ with the
gadget. Two hours maybe, but that’s before you turn on GPS with
‘Locating method’ set to highest. Add to the mix a bumper-to-bumper
traffic jam, and the ETA starts to increase, the distance falling at a
snail’s pace.

I am one for no fiddling with a gadget while driving (\#itcanwait), so I
ignored the thing and enjoyed the diversity of cars passing left and
right. The battery low warming was drowned by the engine sounds all
around. Even if I had heard it, it didn’t matter because I had no in-car
charger.

### Stop and Look

5km or less after off-ramping from the busy national road into an
arterial road, the phone went dead. Disorientation quickly set in. The
comfort of just listening to “in 500 m take the left exit” was gone. I
tried to remember; *What was that road again that I was supposed to
branch to? Was I to turn right or left after the third street?* I
quickly realised I didn’t remember and the information boards were only
confirming what I already knew and not the finer detail I sought - *when
am I supposed to make that left?*![GMaps
Screenshot](/images/gmaps_navigation.PNG)

As it turned dark, I stopped at a Caltex fuel/ service station. After
strolling the place a bit, I found the favour of a petrol attendant whom
a later entrusted with my trusty Galaxy. Ten minutes was the most I was
gonna allow myself to remain ‘deaf’. I had already accumulated
considerable time since my battery had died.

### Cartography By Hand 101

The 10 minutes recharge (with the wrong charger) got me 15% of charge. I
had pen and paper ready as I switched the phone on. I wrote down key
contacts, turned on Location, ran the Maps app, searched my address and
did my sketching. I think I did well. You be the judge… ![Hand Drawn
Map](/images/handdrawn_map.PNG)

I got my confidence back. Drove slower to as to glance at the sketch now
and then.

In all this I learnt that one with a variety of tools in their toolbox
is at an advantage.

#### \#postscript

-   You probably have looked at the ‘survival’, must-haves for your car
    but the pen and paper do come in handy. So does some Cartography
    skills.
